
2
Applied Deep Learning
O. Azencot
Spring 2025
Assignment 4: Convolutional Neural Networks
Deadline: June 19, 17:00, 2025
In this home assignment, you will implement a classification convolutional neural network and you
will view its hidden features via deconvolution. Submission is in pairs. Your submission should
include two files: 1) A PDF file named report.pdf containing the answers to the tasks below, and
2) A compressed container named code.zip containing all the code you used. Please submit your
work via Moodle. Submission is in pairs. For questions, use the Slack channel, or contact me via
email.
1 Background
In the seventh lecture, we learned about convolutional neural networks (CNNs) and their differences
with respect to fully connected models. During the code demo, we showed a basic classification
example on the CIFAR-10 dataset, which consists of 32 ×32 RGB images of various objects. In
what follows, you will reproduce some of the results shown in class, extend the code, as well as
visualize the learned features.
Latent features. In general, we call a latent feature any representation of the model that was
obtained using transformations of the original input. For instance, given an image x ∈R3×32×32, we
denote by z(l) its latent representation after applying the l-th layer. In class, we discussed a CNN
with two convolutional layers, i.e., a convolution followed by nonlinear activation (ReLU) followed
by pooling, see Fig. 1 for an illustration. Thus for any input x, we obtain z(1),z(2) representing the
latent representations after applying the first and second convolutional layers, respectively. In this
home assignment, we ignore the fully connected layers that were also part of the network, and we
only consider convolutional layers.
Deconvolutional models. One of the main tasks in this home assignment is to visualize latent
features. This is based on a well-known paper that uses deconvolutions to transform a latent feature
into an image. The basic idea is as follows: every convolutional layer is composed of three com-
ponents: convolution, nonlinear activation, and pooling. These components can be approximately
inverted using unpooling, nonlinear activation, and transposed convolution. In practice, you can
design a neural network that computes latent features as we showed in class using two convolutional
layers. Then, you can implement an approximate inverse using deconvolutional layers, see Fig. 1.
Then, your model will have two outputs: 1) the original probabilities vector used for classification
1
x
Conv2D-ReLU-MaxPool2d Conv2D-ReLU-MaxPool2d
MaxUnpool2d-ReLU-Conv2DTMaxUnpool2d-ReLU-Conv2DT x~
Flatten Linear-ReLU LinearLinear-ReLUz(1) z(2) y~Figure 1: An illustration of the classification and deconvolutional neural network.
 ̃y, and 2) an image of the same size as the original input,  ̃x. The new loss will be composed of the
original cross entropy loss, and a new reconstruction term. Namely, the loss is defined via
L(x,y,  ̃x,  ̃y) = Lce( ̃y,y) + λLrec( ̃x,x) , (1)
where λ ∈ R+ is a positive weighting scalar, Lce is the cross entropy loss we used in class, and
Lrec( ̃x,x) = 1
3
∑3
i=1 | ̃xi −xi|2F is the mean squared error (MSE) of the original input xi and its
reconstruction  ̃xi, where i represents the i-th channel (R, G or B).
2 Tasks
1. CIFAR-10 classification. Follow the tutorial link, which includes some of the code we
showed in class. Reproduce all of the results shown in this tutorial, attach them to your
report, and describe what you did.
2. Deconvolutional Model. In this task, you will prepare the pipeline for visualizing latent
representations z(l) mentioned above. Adapt your network from Task 1 to include two de-
convolutional layers and adapt the loss to include a reconstruction component. Re-train your
network. Report the classification error (in accuracy) of the test set and show two-three
examples of reconstructed images alongside the original images.
3. Latent Representations Analysis. Use the trained model from Task 2 on two images,
one from the train set and one from the test set. Generate their reconstructions for each and
every feature. For instance, z(1) has six different channels, i.e., z(1) ∈ R6×14×14; you should
place zeros in five of the channels, reconstruct the image, and attach it to your report. For
instance, setting z(1)[: 5] = 0 will erase the information for the first five channels, and keep
the latent representation in the sixth channel. Repeat the above process for all channels in
the first convolutional layer, and for three channels (out of 16) in the second convolutional
layer. Discuss the results in your report. Are there any meaningful patterns arising in the
images you get?
3 Additional Comments
1. Do not attach code to the report. Please follow the guidelines in terms of how to attach code
to your submission.
2. A significant portion of the grade is dedicated to the neatness and descriptiveness of the
report. You should make all the figures to be as clear as possible.
2
3. At the same time, the report should not be too long. Please aim for an (at most) 8 page
document.
4. If you struggle with computational resources, you are allowed to shrink the CIFAR-10 dataset
by a factor of 10, i.e., use only 6000 instead of the total 60,000.
5. To implement the deconvolution network, see the documentation of ConvTranspose2d, and
MaxUnpool2d.
6. You can see an example of a deconvolutional network implemented in PyTorch here.
3
